---
title: Meeting Minutes for 10 January 2013
...

January 10, 2013

CHEA Expansion Subcommittee Meeting

Members present:  Hannah, Donny, McAllen, Sam, Jesse, Molly, Mike, Bridget, Daniel, Leslie, Travis.

# Agenda item #1, interfacing with Gault Residents:

> Hannah:  My thought is we should write them a letter.  I wanted to talk about what exactly we wanted to contain in this letter.

> McAllen:  I would like to make sure they want to live there, not just tolerate it.

> Daniel:  We should say what exactly is a co-op, what will change, will they be able to change.
Some of the food and services, utilities etc. may be additional costs. What are the benefits?

> Hannah:  We should write a letter, seems like we're all on the same page with that.  I'd also like to canvass door-to-door.

> Daniel:  About half the tenants are on Section 8 vouchers.  Their caseworkers have to be in the loop with potential membership reviews, evictions, etc.  Section 8 tenants usually have yearlong leases.

> Hannah:  Rants some about social justice.

> Daniel:  There's also a context of offering moving money.  

**Action item:  write a letter to Gault residents.**

*Donny and Gatlin volunteer to take on this agenda item.*

# General membership acceptance processes:  

> Donny:  It's already a requirement that prospective residents come to two meetings.

> Hannah:  I would like us to continue doing Open Membership processes like Sasona.  I would like us to steer people by asking them more questions "How do you see yourself participating?  What management committees do you see yourself serving on?"

> Bridget:  I think that people would come down here to Sasona.

> Hannah:  If Leslie and Travis are going to vote we need to vote to allow them to be subcommittee members.

## Motion to accept Leslie and Travis

Hannah motions that we accept Leslie and Travis as subcommittee members:

**7 for / 0 against / 0 abstentions**

## Motion to adopt Sasona open membership process

Should we adopt the Sasona Open Membership processes?

**9 for / 0 against / 0 abstentions**

# Common space:

Should we maintain the 4-bedroom, 2-bedroom, and former office as our projected common space?  

> Hannah:  We may be able to get by without the 2-bedroom unit.

> Donny:  This building has a lack of common space so the more the better. *(Others agree for the most part)*

> McAllen:  I'm interested in using people's living rooms at Gault Street as additional common spaces, on a voluntary basis.

> Hannah:  Do we want to upgrade our kitchen equipment?  

> Mike:  Not sure.  

Adjourned.